This is a story of the King of Teberistan and his undoubtedly loyal servant.
The story is told by a parrot to the wife of his owner. The wife’s name is
Kojisteh. The parrot attempts to prevent the wife to meet her secret lover
while her husband is away on a long journey. It is a peculiar story, one of
extreme devotion, sacrifice, loyalty, and love. The parrot’s story begins with
this guy here in the blue robes on the right. This smug character is the King
of Teberistan. He hosted a feast for his highest members in his government.
It is a banquet serving a variety of alcohols and delicious foods. Then, all of a sudden...
This mysterious character shows up!
This man is the one and only sentinel. Shortly after he appears, the king’s
court asks who he is. He proclaims “I am a gladiator, and a lion catcher. I
profess the art of archery, in which I am such an adept, that I can drive my
arrow through a hard stone; and besides this, I know many other valuable arts
and mysteries.”Also, he says his previous employer did not pay him enough, so
he quit, can’t blame him really... Well, his sales pitch alone is convincing
enough. The King gives him the job as the guard of the royal palace One night,
the king is walking around outside the palace. While he is on his stroll, he
sees the sentinel on the lookout, standing on one leg (not this leg in the
picture here, the artists involved making the picture overpainted it  but you
get the idea). The king asks why he’s standing on one leg, and they get in a
little discussion over it. And then, while they were talking...
A mysterious sound emerges from the forest! The king orders the sentinel to
venture out into the woods to find the origins of this noise. Shortly after,
the king follows him at a cautious distance. The sentinel arrives to see a
crying woman. The sentinel becomes infatuated with her, but there is a twist…
she’s the soul of the king!  He asks her what it would take for her to stay.
She tells the sentinel that her soul is tied to the life of the king. As long
as the king lives, she stays. But, the only way to prolong the king’s life
requires the ultimate sacrifice… The Sentinel’s son! The sentinel runs home
tells his son about his situation, and the son agrees to be sacrificed
He brings his son the soul. The son, ready to be sacrificed, is
still squinting in fear just before his father tries to cut his throat…  But
then he stops the sentinel! The woman thinks that the sentinel and son’s
display of their commitment is satisfying enough, there's no need for any bloodshed
The sentinel and son are relieved. Afterwards, the sentinel returns to the
palace. The sentinel returns, and the king confronts him. The king saw
everything that had happened, and he is very pleased. As a result for his
convictions, the King shrouds the sentinel with gold, making the sentinel a
very rich man. There is a bonus to this reward too: the sentinel is promoted
to the keeper of the treasury! The parrot took all night to tell this tale.
As a result, Kojihsteh spent all night listening to him, and is too tired to
venture out to see her lover
and she passes out on the couch. The End!